Uh, we understand that there's been a, uh,
some travel disruptions, uh,
and, uh, we're just gonna be getting, uh, Ben online.
Thank you very much, uh, for coming before us today.
We appreciate that. And, uh, we are looking forward
to engaging with the, for, uh, our, uh,
going for a vehicle there.
So we'll just wait just for a little bit. See,
Ben, uh, you, if you're on the Zoom,
can you turn your camera on if possible please?
Trying to start my video.
Kda Kda.
Kda. Hey, uh, yeah, just, um, warm, welcome,
uh, Ben, thank you very much.
And, uh, to, uh, your colleagues
and team here that are in the room with us,
we understand you've had some travel disruptions,
but we appreciate you making the effort still
to come on here.
Um, I'll pretty much leave it to you, Ben, as perhaps
as the, as the chair to how you wish to, to run this
between yourself online and, and those that are present here
before us today.
But we can, uh, we can start with maybe just a,
a short introduction, maybe, uh, three
or four minutes, uh, of, uh, an introduction
before we get into questions.
So I'll leave that with you, Ben, Jess. Okay.
I'm obviously the chair. I'm being Dalton.
Um, I'll come back to the opening statements,
but if I let the rest of, um,
our board introduce themselves,
and then I'll do the opening statements,
Uh, Call Faithful Deputy Chair
Evans, uh, heading director of
to Virtual News since 2020, your honor, Jeff Taylor.
Also from 2020, the establishment, a director of,
uh, chief Executive
and to our ria, also, um, Sarah Edison, director of to,
and our Chief Acting Chief Investment Officer.
Uh, ka. Thank you. Thank you,
Georgia.
Um, so, uh, the highlights for us of this year
have been, um, obviously the, uh, acquisition
of 7% of the shares in Northport, um, which,
uh, ideally situates us
as having a ongoing stake in the, uh, a number
of developments that are planned to happen
around the port itself.
There, there are plans for some alternative energy
at Marsden Point,
and also possible plans around the, uh,
rail link out to Marsden Point, um, as well as
some extensions on the port.
Uh, those have yet to be finalized,
but, uh, as a 7% shareholder in the port, we're hoping
to be, if they do go ahead, for us to have some kind
of a role, uh, in investment in those particular projects.
Um, tomorrow we have an open day at our new solar
farm, which has been o opened already at,
and, um, and a couple of, uh, two
or three meetings that, um, have had a significant,
uh, impact on our entry into the,
the bigger infrastructure game was our invitation from the
Prime Minister to attend the Infrastructure Investment
Summit in Auckland earlier in the year.
And, uh, we piggybacked a lot in
that particular event on the likes of, uh,
and, uh, um,
and then we also hosted the P Prime Minister
and a number of key ministers in the north for a full day
of taking a look at our various, our various investments
and also likely investments.
And then just this last weekend, uh, we were a part of,
uh, Ang, the Indigenous Economic Summit, um,
sponsored by Waka in Hamilton.
The summit had 35 domestic
and 40 international funds
with over 7 trillion in the room,
and we were deeply honored to be a case study in
that particular showcase.
And, um, there are a number of possible, uh,
joint investments that we will be following up on
as a result of that particular event.
Um, in terms of our, uh, ongoing business,
we have had a real turning of the tide,
and we've got a number of potential partners either
that we are investigating as, as part
of our normal work right at this time,
or a number of people that have spoken to us about
various investments that we will yet have to, um,
take a decent look at.
So that would be my opening statements for now,
and I hand back to the committee to begin the questions.
I shall open it up for the opening question from
anybody. Great.
Now, Ben, um, nice to, nice to see you again.
Hey, uh, this time last year we spoke in some depth about,
um, your frustration about the, uh, inability to achieve,
um, decent market returns
because of the, the dual mandate, um, that you have in terms
of, uh, where you have to invest, how 12 months on, um,
another 12 months experience of, of having that restriction.
Um, what are, what are your comments now, just and,
and holding in light of the fact
that the very modest return, once again,
Uh, we had a really good meeting, uh, earlier in the year
with, um, the Minister of Finance, minister Willis,
and Minister Goldsmith and Minister Jones.
And that particular restriction was relaxed,
not completely, but definitely allowed us to, um,
continue looking at, uh, at infrastructure
And when, so, when, when, when did that, so when will the,
uh, the impact of that begin, of that relaxation?
Uh, well, the, well,
the North Port shares are already landed
and, um, I see there's a number of, uh,
there's a number of projects that we're looking at now.
Okay. But you're still, you're still restricted
to be investing, um, directly in Kodo, though,
So we still have two mandates Yeah.
Okay. That you are referring to, which is our primary, uh,
invest in the north, and then our secondary, the ability
to grow the fund by looking at investments outside of Yeah.
We still operate under those conditions, uh,
but we have more flexibility to look at the second. Yeah.
Yeah. Okay. So that's, he, hence, that was my, um,
that was my second question to Ben.
When does that, when does the
effect of the second one take place?
'cause at this stage, all
of the investments are still in the north, are they?
That's right. But we still, so it's taken effect now.
We can still look. Okay.
Um, and we do consider options outside of digital.
He, right. Okay.
Um, it would be fair to say though,
that there's disappointment, um, within the team at the,
at the level of return achieved, or,
Um, no, I wouldn't say disappointment.
I mean, we, uh, in terms of, um, iwi commercial entities,
if we're gonna use those comparison,
we are, we are mid pack.
Okay. Um, and considering our small, uh, size of our fund
and our small geographic area, we,
we are reasonably happy with where we are.
And, and I guess the other point is that
we are a long term intergenerational investor,
and there will be ups and downs in any particular year.
Right. Um, so four years in it's very early days for a,
for a long term fund, such as us.
Okay. And we'll move to HOA online.
Uncle Ben didn't make it down.
We're all on the same plane and we never left.
Um, but wanting to acknowledge, um, team that's in the room,
um, as well as your work to date, wanting to unpack
as an initial question, the investment criteria that
is using to inform decision making with the portfolio
that you have, but also what's to come,
what is the specific investment criteria
that you use in terms of the hierarchy of decision making
to ultimately purchase something buy into it?
I, I'd be happy to answer that.
Um, uh, been we, we are governed by, um,
what we refer to as an investment policy statement.
So the jargon that goes with that in funds management,
often people talk about CY Os.
Mm-hmm. Uh, so in our investment policy statement,
it's driven first of all by an objective,
and that objective is to outperform inflation.
So when we sit down
and we consider investments that would fall into tupu,
we consider they must pass that first criteria of,
in our opinion, them being inflation
adjusted in terms of the referred
to intergenerational time horizon.
So we then are more specific than that, that then we
prescribe the objective that we are looking to, in
that the portfolio should outperform CPI plus 2%.
So when we are looking at returns,
as you have on your page here
and the history of them, our objective,
our key performance objective is
to outperform inflation by 2%.
Mm-hmm. So when you look at a return this year,
that is like a 3% rounded out, um, uh,
that's broadly consistent with only inflation, uh,
and certainly a little below
what is average across the period.
So let me come back
therefore to the assets that you would expect
to see us purchasing and those assets.
Uh, if you look at the pie graph within the portfolio, um,
land will commonly feature in any investment fund
that is looking to outperform inflation.
Uh, land tends to adjust satisfactorily for what is long,
long term real value.
So you'll see land in there,
and obviously that picks up in the graph under primary, uh,
industries, commercial property,
and to some extent infrastructure and energy.
So what you've got within there is the three portions
of the pie pretty much describe the asset classes
that we are looking at.
You may also note, uh,
that our largest asset class remains cash.
Mm-hmm. And our job, of course, is to convert that cash into
portions of those other three pies.
Our bias within our investment policy is towards
infrastructure and energy, which is
where we see both the most opportunity in the pipeline
and the nicest fit for us in terms of getting
adequate return against inflation.
Yeah. Uh, supplementary, Mr. Chair? Yep. Carol?
Um, yeah, just following up on that,
because I'm remembering, you know, you, you did a whole lot
of purchases
and commercial buildings, whether it's the Foursquare
and opo, um, you know, that building in Ty, you know,
that type of thing, PA here, um, uh, you are moving to other
areas now for investment.
So you've shared infrastructure and, um,
and you are looking at other alternatives rather than
just bricks and mortar.
Uh, we are, and again,
that's quite prescribed within the investment policy
statement where it gives us limits against each asset class.
Uh, and while there's flexibility in that, uh,
you should read into that, the potential for us
to increase infrastructure
and energy up to 60% of total assets, uh,
and other areas, um,
to a higher weight than is there currently.
Uh, we have this bias towards infrastructure
and energy where we see the best risk adjusted return for
what is our CPI targeted outcomes.
Final part, Mr. Chair.
Um, just on that, in thinking about the, uh,
there are limitations in all of that investment criteria.
So, um, and thinking about the ultimate goal,
if you are purchasing assets
or you develop, you're making these developments
and contributing to it, what is the plan and the give back?
Because you could end up investing a heck
of a lot in kiwi fruit
and primary industries in the mid north.
Is that all going back to the local tribes?
Have, have you done any work on, on the give back
and what, what is, what this distribution look like?
Ultimately,
It's not our wheelhouse, um, with respect, Mr.
Chair, um, that the distribution policies outside
of our remit, our remit is purely to invest, um,
the assets that we do have and achieve a commercial return.
The distribution policy is S warehouse.
Thank you. Fire. Um, and, and so
therefore, just with that, um, thinking about the, oh,
I'll leave it for a, because I've got AUA
question, but that, that's a new one.
I'll leave that for another one.
Yeah. Thank you for that. Um, Hua,
can I just pick up on that and then reflect back?
I just wanted to, just to, um, clarify what Lindsay,
you said, um, in terms
of asking whether there was some disappointment in the last
12 months, and then what you were saying, Jeff,
it doesn't seem to be some dissonance between,
you're acknowledging that what you are looking
for is CPI plus 2%, acknowledging
that's not what's been achieved,
but you're not disappointed with
how the last 12 months has gone. I mean, well,
Well, perhaps if I could explain Yeah.
Of significant contributor to that is we still have close
to 50% of the fund in cash.
Right. And cash is a poor,
poorly correlated through to inflation.
Uh, particularly at the moment we've come
through this period where average inflation is 5%.
Yeah. Cash has fallen to sort of 3% number.
So it's not our preference to be holding onto the levels
of cash that we have.
They're a poor asset class.
So perhaps you should, perhaps, you know, we, we could, um,
correctly yeah.
Refer to the portfolio structure still being in its infancy.
Uh, and therefore that flowing into, in this example,
the 3% return for the year, um, a large contributor to
that being less than inflation has been
that weight towards cap.
Okay. Which then just goes back to my opening question
to Ben, which is with 12 months on that answers we've had
so far, are the same answers we received,
uh, 12 months ago.
Um, are we, what kind of conversation do you anticipate
that we could be having in 12 months time in terms of,
so maybe the point, do you think, uh, how much of the cash,
given the fact that that, that, that,
that the return on cash is only going
to drop further over the next 12 months?
Mm-hmm. What's a, what's a what, what, what,
what's your realistic target, um,
return for the next 12 months?
Can, can, um, Mr.
Chair, we put a fair bit of effort into, um,
a joint bid with Axona on the dry dock.
And if that had come off, um, this year, then
easily over 20 mil would've been, um, uh,
would've been allocated to that particular project only.
It's only in the last probably six weeks that, um,
that, that the, uh, government signaled that it wasn't going
to go ahead with that in that particular format.
So, um, I think also with the cash tours, we,
if we could get it allocated to appropriate projects,
we would do, but it takes a fair bit of time like
that one in particular, which took most of, um, uh, the
outside energy, um, of this year to try
and get it to a point where, um, we had a deal.
So that, that's the kind of thing that we will have.
We've got a couple more of those now.
And there is, there is another joint bid we have at the
moment on a different project, um, remaining with Axion.
I think Kelly might be able to give you a bit more on that.
I, I'll just add to that, Ben.
Um, I mean, by way of example,
our single biggest investment into Northport Group Limited,
um, that took about two and a half years and,
and that was about a sixth of our fund.
Right. So, you know, we, we are a cautious, uh, investor.
Um, we are not gonna jump, uh, at anything too quickly.
We, we need to do a lot of serious dd.
Okay. And can I just something on that,
'cause then this, I was gonna be a primary later on.
Sure. I'll probably cover it off.
So think you probably asked, answered it in
that I was gonna ask around the, um, the 1.6
or 1.7% operating, so in, in terms of the, the, the costs
and administrating a fund that's achieving a very, uh,
modest return at the moment.
But I, I think I can imagine your answer to that will be
that that's because of the amount of DD that you are doing
because of the kind of fund that you are.
Yeah. Uh, but also I think as a comparator, I think our,
our running costs as a percentage are a roundabout
what you'd expect for a fund of our size.
Yes. Although other comparative funds would be achieving
different results, but then they're not sitting under your
mandate, which again, goes back to my opening quote question
to, um, to, to Ben, which is just trying
to work out whether in the last 12 months we've made, um,
sufficient progress for us as a committee to be confident
that, that, that, that, that things are
getting. But thank you very much.
I think it's a very positive thing, uh, that the, uh,
opportunities have opened up a little bit wider, uh, with
outside of your, your Yeah.
In other aspects. That's got
to be a positive frustration, uh, for you.
I, I know that Ben, you mentioned that last year, there's,
that, that was a little bit of a frustration
as is just being domiciled into a home.
Uh, uh, so, uh, yeah.
That must, must perhaps start some other work stream
with regards to opportunities I
Yeah.
Giving up or he considers itself from the Cape
to the Bombay Day, but we'll leave that there.
Yeah. Um, I heard references to Northport
and, um, oh, well, we might as well go there, right.
And, um, have a chat about that.
It's a significant investment
and, um, we'll have a huge footprint across re Harba, um,
mindful also of the Environment Court, um, proceedings
that Al Hapu and Whanau have participated in and won.
So, um, if it was 2.5 years of due diligence,
what was the due diligence that you considered in terms
of the con the very real concerns are raised in the
Environment court, who was analyzing that, what the argument
for their concerns against Northport expansion.
What, what, um, what did you consider in terms
of your due diligence on that purchase?
Um, it was very much part of the discussions around, uh,
the consortium table Hona, um, especially, uh, the,
the, at that time, the upcoming, uh, hearings in, uh,
it was as we do with any, uh, purchase, uh,
it was weighed up in terms of, uh, our ability to
preserve a space for in the future
around those decision making, uh, tables, uh, versus
missing the opportunity, uh, which
I would say would not reappear in my lifetime.
Uh, and being, uh, continuously
on the outer, ie.
Having this, what, what we would call a lacked kind of,
uh, engagement, uh, protocol.
So in the balance of things, um, the option to
preserve those ownership rights, uh, was definitely
a key factor in the decision to move forward.
Um, so on that, on that, um, in North Port,
um, considering the 60 hectares
that will be dredged in Fang Harbor
and the 12 hectares that will be reclaimed cutting off tko
to our last aka Atua, you know, did,
did you consider like the impact environmentally,
let alone the cultural values
and the, the disconnection that will occur for generations
for the people of Fang?
Um, so I'm a director of Northport,
so I should probably speak to that.
Yeah. Um, and any official response should of course,
come from the chair, Julia,
but, um, I, I guess I do note that, uh,
a deal has been struck with, um, two significant local, uh,
entities, um, as a result of the, uh,
issues that you talk about.
So I think, uh, you know, uh, we've,
we've gotta be reasonably okay with where things have got
to at the moment, um, but always open to input.
So with the deal being struck with two local,
uh, entities mm-hmm.
Um, what does that look like in terms of the mitigation?
Because this is an intergenerational issue, A
because s in there for all of,
and there's gonna be a huge footprint on top of
the specific,
you, you've made deals, this is north port's made deals,
and I'm guessing Pu knows about it.
Um, there's still risk
and concern still being generated Now amongst the, how,
how do you, how are you gonna strengthen that
as pu So take off the north port hat,
Northland Regional Council can take responsibility
for their part, but because you are the Maori in it,
and I know you are Crown, but you're still the Maori
and you the, because you're branding, how can we look to,
uh, communicate with all of those impacted,
not just the two entities that got a payer?
Uh, that's a good question.
Huno and I say because we have, so we have a 7% share
in, in Northport, right.
Uh, and we sit around the table, well, as Lindsay said,
he's a director, but he's an independent, uh, director.
Uh, typically doesn't actually have any seats around that
port board, but I think it would be something
that Lindsay would be taking back to, uh, that table
to have further conversations around.
Okay. We'll move To, uh, to Penny. Yeah.
Supplementary to, um, the investments
regarding North Port governments just announced it's, uh,
planned investment into Devonport, uh,
amidst large discussions about potentially shifting
functions of the Navy up to, uh, the North port or at least,
or to dry dock and the use of the North Port.
Um, just some thoughts from nu on the impacts of that
with respect to that particular, I appreciate you,
I know you're on, but you know, I'm trying
to be very careful here with your dual roles.
I'm sorry, just the opening sentence you said
Penny, I didn't quite catch it.
Uh, you will have seen that last week the government
announced its plans for the redevelopment of Devonport,
uh, which is estimated to be approximately $4 billion
Oh, yes. As part of the defense
estate. Correct. Yeah. Right.
Yeah. So I'm just, you know, with the, with 7% share
in, in, in the North Port, um,
just some views about the impact that,
that might have on that investment,
Uh, opportunity, I guess is the impact.
I see. Uh, I think, um, the, the positives
of, uh, our involvement with Northport are large and,
and will grow over time.
Um, nor, uh, the, um,
harbor is the deepest natural harbor in the country.
Uh, we have, uh, existing infrastructure
and a lot of flat land.
Um, and so, you know, there's a, there's a whole picture
to be painted into the future and,
and, uh, for the future benefit of our people in the North.
Um, so I, I just seek big opportunity, Dana.
Thank you, Mr. Chair. Um, um, welcome.
Uh, my question is around the audit, um, and performance.
And I note that, uh, the committee noted that, um, pu
to was downgraded to needs improvement, one of the areas
of the audit, uh, so I guess
around financial information systems controls.
And I know as a board be generally concerned about that.
I think my question is, um, well, two parts of the question,
which I ask both of them 'cause they
have really intertwined.
Um, but what improvements have you made as a result of that,
and what is the board's monitoring system across, um,
financial performance systems and, and, uh, investments?
Okay, sorry.
Um, so, um, my name is Sarah Peterson, so I'm a director,
um, at NU and also chair our audit and risk committee.
Um, so as you noted, we received some reductions this year
during the audit process, um, and our reflection
and discussion with our auditors were focused on the fact
that we had during the year a number of, um, temporary
or contract staff in place as we went
through permanent recruitment for those roles.
So we have now, um, we have now
permanent staff within key roles that oversee
and monitor our financial system.
Um, but, and as you would expect,
we would have our normal processes around audit
and risk committee, um, meetings.
We meet quarterly throughout the period that is primarily
to look at our financial, uh, controls
and reporting systems.
And we are, as you would expect, four years in, we have, um,
systems and processes that are fit for purpose
for an organization of this size.
But we are a small team.
We have only one
or two members of our team that are responsible
for financial control and reporting systems.
So naturally, from time to time,
you will have some potential limitations of
that control environment
that you might not see in a larger organization
where you can, um, achieve better segregation
Or, Um, differentiation duties.
So from our perspective, while we are disappointed to see,
um, obviously the change that you saw reported, um,
from our auditors, we have made improvements, um,
during this year to address those.
And we are confident that they will we'll see the impact
of those in next year's.
What, what are the improvements that you've made? Sure.
That is around, um,
the permanent staff being put in place.
It has in included some changes to some
of our system controls around who has access
to particular aspects.
Some particular review changes around, um,
month end accounting and reporting processes,
and also increased visibility in reporting around some
of our financial performance metrics on both
a monthly and quarterly basis.
Right. Uh, Johana, is yours a supplementary or a primary?
I think it'll be a supplement. Uh, no, it'll be a primary.
Okay. Just one, one second. Uh, uh, thank you.
Um, hello again. Uh, um,
just about your priorities going forward for 2020 5 26.
One of the points is, um, educating
about twenties portfolio.
Um, who will be doing the educating, who's the educating,
um, director that,
and what does that look like in practice, please?
Uh, so Ben mentioned in his opening statements that we,
uh, have a solar farm opening tomorrow.
Mm. Uh, so part of the education is actually
what does NU actually do
because there's still, we, we need to demystify that
and what do we actually have, uh, within our portfolio.
So, so, uh, a clear focus around the education pieces,
actually lifting the lid
and letting, uh, inviting Pui in to actually see, touch,
feel, smell some of the assets that, that, uh,
could be part of a future 20 settlement tomorrow is one
of those ways in which we are doing that.
Thank you. That, that sounds lovely,
but do you mind if you just, um, it does,
does really sound lovely, by the way.
Yeah. But do you mind if you just help me understand, like,
who, who from your team is in charge
of putting a program together and the plan for educating?
So we have an engagement team within, uh, uh, at, uh,
the engagement team is responsible for looking inwards.
So obviously we have to engage, uh, within the crown, uh,
but also, uh, looking outwards.
And so when you see the metrics around our engagements,
those are all, uh, developed by that engagement team.
Okay. And sorry, supplemental, if you don't mind.
And so, um, one of the education processes is, um,
uh, there on the ground showing that this is the type
of thing we aim for in chief.
Yeah. Um, but so is the invitation to everyone, uh,
our invitations sent out, you know, how Yeah.
Just trying to get to the nitty gritty
of the education plan.
Yeah. So, uh, you'll see in our annual report, we've,
we've talked about open days, uh, in one
of the ways in which we, uh, send
that message out is around our pani.
So if you've signed up to our pani, uh, we put out comms
to whoever is there, uh, as well
as we've got another distribution list where we,
uh, send invites. Thank
You.
I also presented the large, like for example,
there at the festival
Ah, yes. Members
and fully engaged with anybody
who shows up the festival,
which I understand had about 8,003 day or two day,
Things like that. Yeah.
Okay. Uh, we're near the end of our time, but we'll
Come to HOA next.
Yeah. Supplementary on that,
because I get your MailChimps.
I didn't get the about the, it would be great to go show,
tell
there's no, how do their people know?
The pan, the pani went out yesterday.
I, I, I take it that the solar farm opening is tomorrow.
That's because, uh, the short notice is around, uh,
this is under a limited partnership
and we are actually not the lead in the organization of it.
Mr. Chair, I've got a primary off that one. Go
For it. Yeah.
So, um, if you are not the primary
and you are a minority in an investment,
and we've already heard from North Port,
ain't got a TU on the te you know, te
and then you are small at man too, like
how are we really measuring the risk
inputing into strategic decisions, able
to measure the progress of the investment?
This is across the board, not just the north board thing,
but across the board as a minority investor.
Um, how, how do you measure progress
and influence when you are little small fish
KiOR? I think Jeff's
busting it gut towards,
I'm, I'm hoping I can help you with this.
We, um, acknowledge that we, again, coming back
to the investment policy, uh,
and what we will invest in, we acknowledge
that given our capital base, uh,
and the investment opportunities, we are likely
to be a minority investor.
And often what people will talk to
around being a minority investor is well colloquial.
Yeah. They're dumb money. You know,
you're going in there without enough influence.
And that valuation should always be less than a controlling
or majority investor.
We are in fact positive on being the minority
because we acknowledge that we don't have the skills base
to be running and operating.
What are these types of assets?
So in the North port example, an enormous portion
of our risk mitigation was that we were partnering with Port
of Tonga a best in class operator.
Um, and that will go to other investments
that you see when I say you should look forward
to us featuring more in the infrastructure
and energy, um, sector.
We are not suggesting that we are the investor
that can own and operate.
Uh, so we acknowledge the risk of being a minority,
but that means we put a positive screen
and we pick this up within our bias of partnering
and getting that right where we fail.
It's where we have backed the wrong owner operator. Hmm.
Hua. Okay. Supplementary off that,
because port's the don't have a good relationship
with the ho, so it's kind of risky that you are partnering
with a guy who's now coming up north
and, you know, deals may be done,
but this is intergenerational impact.
Um, but also just, um, updating Kelly,
I did get the pani yesterday
and it's awesome that grants are advertised,
but nothing's on the solar farm in the Pani Gilda.
Yeah. There, there's three parts to that Pani, uh, hoa,
um, one of them being the solar farm.
I think that's right at the end.
Just to pick up also a chair in relation to the
purchase and the ho toga who did approach me in the weekend
to say thank you very much for the purchase of those chairs,
pressure on them as so thumbs up from, uh,
Charlie Op.
Okay. Um, I think we're gonna bring this, uh, this hearing
to a, to a, to a close,
but just in, uh, in doing that, um,
well, once again, thank you very much.
We didn't actually get, uh, a lot of time on, on tu
and also the, uh, I think a really good, um, uh, line of
that with, uh, UR, um mm-hmm.
What you're doing there. I think that's a great initiative
and, and well done for, uh, for that, you know, governance.
It's, yeah. Our organizations are only
as strong as what our governance are. Yeah.
Just in closing on that chair, um, just
to remind the committee that actually took her as one part
of our disbursement policy,
our disbursement policy was actually as a result of, uh,
mandate or direction of the former government minister, um,
in his former portfolio as as minister.
Yep. Uh, we were directed
and that part of our remit still remains,
minister Goldsmith has chosen to claw that back to 10%
of our disbursement should be distributed specifically
to build the capability of Npui to receive a settlement.
We chose to direct part of that, um,
disbursement towards building commercial
directorship capability.
A cohort, if you, any of you are Wai will be all in
Wai and Force at Waga in partnership with the Institute
of Directors on 2nd of February.
So you're most welcome to come
and turn that function. Awesome.
Awesome. Thank you. Well, with that, um, Ben, thank you
for making yourself available online.
Sorry about the travel. Distracting.
Ana, thank you for coming online
and to everybody in the room.
You, you are welcome. Thank you.
Woo. We're out. We're out.